Answer these below Questions:
----------------------------------------------
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?

What is IDE?
Integrated development environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, IntelliJ IDEA
Explain the entire java life cycle.

what is class?
It define object and its structure. 

What is object?
Instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
main class 
public static void main (String [] args)

Why main is static?
otherwise JVM would need as instance of this object, and it would be hard to know there is the starting point.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Abstract class may or may not define method wherelse Interface donesn't define method which must be overwritten in concrete class.  
  
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No you cannot. You have to implement and extend those in a concrete class. 

what is Access Specifier?
1. public
2. private
3. protected
4. default(no specifier)

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object-oriented programming.  

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Application programming interface.
String, Arrays, List, Queue, Set


Does java support multiple inheritance?
No

What is method overloading and when it happens?
when multiple method has same name with differnt paremeter, return name,  or different access specifier. 

What is method overriding and when it happens?
It happens when a child redefine its parents class.


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.



What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
It is a class object instead of instance object. static is shared between all of this instance. 
Example of how it is used in variable and method are below,
class x{
int static y = 10;
public void static pr ()
{
System.out.println("this");
}
}

class y{
x.pr();
x.y 
x ab= new x(); // no need to define
}

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?



What is final, finally and finalize?

What is a constructor ?

What is "this" keyword in java ?


What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Mechine

What version of java are you using?


What is JAR stand for ?
Java ARchive
What is compile time and run time?

What is heap?

How java manage it's memory?

